Now that we have completed our balance sheet and
our income statement, let's analyze a couple of ratios
that use numbers from both financial statements.
Okay, and so recall, that you calculated your current income
statement in exercise number two, and you completed your
current balance sheet in exercise number seven.
Okay, and these are the two sources for the calculations
in this current exercise, which is exercise number nine.
And so question number one in exercise nine deals with
your lost job coverage ratio.
And higher is better okay?
It's, your lost job coverage ratio is calculated by
dividing your net worth by your annual expenses.
Okay not including income taxes as we wouldn't have to pay
income taxes if we were out of work
which has happened to everybody including myself
at least once, okay.
And sometimes, many years later actually,
sorry it's a little side note here,
but many years you'll look back and you'll actually realize
that it was a blessing in disguise that,
that you didn't have that job anymore in the past
if you were let go like I was.
Because you're, you just weren't passionate about that right
and anyway if you're not passionate
you can't excel at anything in life.
Okay, so back on track.
Of course a higher lost job coverage ratio is better.
And above one times is ideal, okay so that we have
our net worth covering our annual expenses, okay.
Meaning we can assume here in this scenario
that we can sell some of our assets.
And that's why we really want our assets to be liquid,
something we can sell quickly.
Like investments which we'll cover in part three okay.
Okay, and so please use the data from exercise number two,
which is our current income statement.
And also please use the data from exercise seven
which is our balance sheets, and calculate what your
lost job coverage ratio is.
And put your calculation here in this white box
and pause me, complete question one,
then click on the plus here to check your answers.
And then unpause me to so we can move on
to question number two together.
Thanks, pause me now.
Okay, let's move on to question number two.
Where we're gonna discuss calculating our
life insurance coverage ratio and higher is better.
Okay, and if you're married, and or you have kids,
or you have anybody dependent on you it's really important
to consider getting life insurance.
Which we're gonna cover later on in the course
in this section here.
Now, if you want your family to, to be very well protected
you need to have at least 10 years worth
of annual expenses in order for them to be okay
if you're no longer around.
And the best way to accomplish this is through getting
a life insurance policy.
Again, we'll cover this later in the course.
But your life insurance coverage ratio
is equal to this formula: your life insurance
coverage payout plus your net worth,
divided by your annual expenses.
Excluding income taxes.
And this all equals how many years worth of expenses
are covered for your family.
Okay and really try to understand that ratio.
Okay and so if something happens to you, God forbid,
what you get a bunch of money, right?
And that's called your life insurance coverage payout.
Plus your also gonna add your net worth
which we know is assets minus liabilities.
Okay and then you divide that by your annual expenses.
Excluding income taxes again because
you're not gonna be paying income taxes.
And again make sure this ratio is over 10 times
so your family is fine.
And if it's not don't worry yet.
We'll get there okay?
So please use the data from your current income statement
in exercise two and also again use the data
from your balance sheet exercise number seven
and calculate what your life insurance coverage ratio is.
Also, if, if you have a life insurance policy right now,
use this in the equation, okay.
It's, if you don't then you kind of understand how
much money you need for a life insurance policy,
payout wise, okay.
And again, we're gonna cover life insurance
in more detail later on.
I just wanna put on your radar screen how it looks
you can kind of understand protecting your family
and why life insurance policies offer support.
Okay, so put your calculations in the white box here,
and then check your answers by clicking on the plus symbol.
Thanks.